docs/localcluster.md, before:

---
id: LocalCluster
title: Running a local cluster
sidebar_label: Running a local cluster
---

After you've built LogDevice, you can use the `ld-dev-cluster` utility to
start a local cluster. This utility creates directories for nodes under the
specified path, writes a config file that includes all of these nodes, and starts an
instance of the `logdeviced` daemon for each node.

To run the binary from within the git
repo, enter `cd LogDevice` where `LogDevice` is the root of your local LogDevice source tree.

```text
./_build/bin/ld-dev-cluster
```

The utility creates temporary directories, which it deletes on a clean exit, and starts 5 nodes.

You should see output similar to this:

```text
...
Cluster running. ^C or type "quit" or "q" to stop. Commands:

        replace &lt;nid&gt;   Replace a node (kill the old node, wipe the existing data, start a replacement). Do not wait for rebuilding.
        start &lt;nid&gt;     Start a node if it is not already started.
        stop &lt;nid&gt;      Pause logdeviced by sending SIGSTOP. Waits for the process to stop accepting connections.
        resume &lt;nid&gt;    Resume logdeviced by sending SIGCONT. Waits for the process to start accepting connections again.
        kill &lt;nid&gt;      Kill a node.
        expand &lt;n&gt;      Add new nodes to the cluster.
        shrink &lt;n&gt;      Remove nodes from the cluster.


To create a log range:
        ldshell -c /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/logdevice.conf logs create --from 1 --to 100 --replicate-across "node: 2" test_logs

To write to log 1:
         echo hello | _build/bin/ldwrite /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/logdevice.conf 1

To start a tailer for log 1:
        _build/bin/ldtail /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/logdevice.conf 1 --follow

To tail the error log of a node:
        tail -f /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/N0:1/log

To send an admin command to a node:
        echo info | nc -U /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/N0:1/socket_command  
cluster&gt;
```

The output suggests several steps. Copy and paste those steps to another terminal to create a log range, write data to
it, and read it using a tailer.

To inspect the config file that `ld-dev-cluster` generated, substitute your own directory:

```bash
 cat /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/logdevice.conf
```

Run `ld-dev-cluster --help` to see all of the possible options. These are particularly useful:
```text
--nnodes      The number of nodes in the cluster
--loglevel    Controls verbosity of the output of the `ld-dev-cluster` utility
--root        If specified, the data will be placed here instead of a temporary directory (and will not be cleaned up on exit)
--param       Additional parameters to pass to every logdeviced instance. For example, `--param loglevel=debug`
--use-tcp     Configure nodes to listen on TCP ports instead of Unix sockets
```

Commit message:

document docker image
Summary:
update how to run local cluster with docker image. update build instructions with docker dev target instructions.
add google analytics tracking id. added github to title bar. moved doc build instructions to contributers guide.

Reviewed By: calebmarchent

Differential Revision: D14778716

fbshipit-source-id: 83941a97e27502f86a84f773f5f3e86522779537

docs/localcluster.md, after:

---
id: LocalCluster
title: Run a local cluster in Docker
sidebar_label: Run a local cluster in Docker
---
You can quickly create a local cluster, write to it, and read from it.

The easiest way to get started is by retrieving the LogDevice Docker image:

```shell
docker pull facebookincubator/logdevice
```
Once you have downloaded the Docker image, launch a container named mycluster to start a local cluster.
```shell
docker run -it --name mycluster facebookincubator/logdevice
```
You'll see the output of the ld-dev-cluster utility, which the container starts if no command is specified.

Or, if you did a full LogDevice build, from the root directory of the repo, run the ld-dev-cluster utility:

```shell
./_build/bin/ld-dev-cluster
```

`ld-dev-cluster` creates temporary directories, which it deletes on a clean exit, and starts 5 nodes. It also writes a config file that includes all of these nodes, and starts an instance of the `logdeviced` daemon for each node.

You should see output similar to this:

```text
...
Cluster running. ^C or type "quit" or "q" to stop. Commands:

        replace &lt;nid&gt;   Replace a node (kill the old node, wipe the existing data, start a replacement). Do not wait for rebuilding.
        start &lt;nid&gt;     Start a node if it is not already started.
        stop &lt;nid&gt;      Pause logdeviced by sending SIGSTOP. Waits for the process to stop accepting connections.
        resume &lt;nid&gt;    Resume logdeviced by sending SIGCONT. Waits for the process to start accepting connections again.
        kill &lt;nid&gt;      Kill a node.
        expand &lt;n&gt;      Add new nodes to the cluster.
        shrink &lt;n&gt;      Remove nodes from the cluster.


To create a log range:
        ldshell -c /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/logdevice.conf logs create --from 1 --to 100 --replicate-across "node: 2" test_logs

To write to log 1:
         echo hello | _build/bin/ldwrite /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/logdevice.conf 1

To start a tailer for log 1:
        _build/bin/ldtail /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/logdevice.conf 1 --follow

To tail the error log of a node:
        tail -f /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/N0:1/log

To send an admin command to a node:
        echo info | nc -U /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/N0:1/socket_command  
cluster&gt;
```

To inspect the config file that `ld-dev-cluster` generated, start a new terminal session and run bash in the Docker container. Substitute your own directory in the cat command.

```bash
 docker exec -it mycluster bash

 cat /dev/shm/tmp/logdevice/IntegrationTestUtils.8b62-42b5-1e7a-7cec/logdevice.conf
```

The `ld-dev-cluster` output suggests several steps. Copy and paste those steps to another terminal to create a log range, write data to
it, and read it using a tailer.

Run `ld-dev-cluster --help` to see all of the possible options. These are particularly useful:
```text
--nnodes      The number of nodes in the cluster
--loglevel    Controls verbosity of the output of the `ld-dev-cluster` utility
--root        If specified, the data will be placed here instead of a temporary directory (and will not be cleaned up on exit)
--param       Additional parameters to pass to every logdeviced instance. For example, `--param loglevel=debug`
--use-tcp     Configure nodes to listen on TCP ports instead of Unix sockets
```
